---
title: PyPI Now Supports Project Archival
description: Projects on PyPI can now be marked as archived.
authors:
  - facutuesca
date: 2025-01-30
tags:
  - security
---

Support for marking projects as archived has landed on PyPI. Maintainers can now
archive a project to let users know that the project is not expected to receive
any more updates.

This allows users to make better decisions about which packages they depend on,
especially regarding supply-chain security, since archived projects clearly
signal that no future security fixes or maintenance should be expected.

<!-- more -->

Project archival is not deletion: archiving a project does not remove it from
the index, and does not prevent users from installing it. Archival is *purely*
a user-controlled marker that gives project owners the ability to signal a
project’s status; PyPI has no plans to delete or prune archived distributions.

Support for archival is built on top of the project quarantine feature. Read
more about that feature in [PyPI’s December 2024 blog
post](./2024-12-30-quarantine.md). You can also find
more details about the project archival’s implementation on the [Trail of Bits
blog](https://blog.trailofbits.com/2025/01/30/pypi-now-supports-archiving-projects/).

## Archiving a project

Owners of a project can archive it by navigating to the project’s settings page
and scrolling down near the end to the following section:

![Screenshot showing the archival section in the project settings
page.](../assets/2025-01-30-archival/screenshot-settings.png)

As described in the warning message, archiving prevents new uploads to the
project. After archiving the project, users will see the following notice in the
project’s main PyPI page:

![Screenshot showing the message displayed in the project page when a project is
archived.](../assets/2025-01-30-archival/screenshot-message.png)

Maintainers are encouraged to make a final release before archiving, updating
the project’s description with more context about the archival.

Finally, the project owners can always unarchive a project if needed.

## Stay tuned

Project archival is the first step in a larger project, aimed at improving the
*lifecycle* of projects on PyPI. That project includes evaluating additional
project statuses (things like “deprecated” and “unmaintained”), as well as
changes to [PyPI’s public APIs](https://docs.pypi.org/api/) that will enable
clients to retrieve and act on project status information. You can track our
progress on these fronts by following along with
[warehouse\#16844](https://github.com/pypi/warehouse/issues/16844)\!

## Acknowledgements

This feature was developed by [Trail of Bits](https://www.trailofbits.com/). We
would like to thank the PyPI admins and maintainers, including [Mike
Fiedler](https://github.com/miketheman) and [Dustin
Ingram](https://github.com/di), for their time and consideration throughout the
design and development process.

The funding for this feature’s development comes from
[Alpha-Omega](https://alpha-omega.dev/). Alpha-Omega’s mission is to protect
society by catalyzing sustainable security improvements to the most critical
open-source software projects and ecosystems.

