---
title: PyPI Publish Attestation (v1)
---

Type URI: <https://docs.pypi.org/attestations/publish/v1>

Version 1.0

## Purpose

To provide a minimal, "implicit" digital attestation for PyPI packages published
via Trusted Publishing.

## Use Cases

A [Trusted Publisher] can produce this attestation during the publishing
process for a particular release of a PyPI project. This allows consumers of
that project to verify the following:

1. That a particular release distribution (i.e. sdist or wheel) was, in fact,
   uploaded via a Trusted Publisher and not some other publishing mechanism
   (such as a locally-held API token).
2. That a *specific* Trusted Publisher identity was used to publish to the
   project, such as a particular GitHub Actions workflow, GitLab identity,
   Google Cloud service account, etc.

Put together, these allow users to assert a higher degree of confidence in
the integrity (but not necessarily trustworthiness) of projects published to PyPI,
by asserting that the package's files are published via a short-lived credential
corresponding to a specific machine identity (such as a GitHub Actions workflow).

This can be further composed with monitoring, e.g. for changes to a PyPI
project's attested Trusted Publisher over time, indicating potentially
malicious changes to the project.

## Prerequisites

This predicate depends on the [in-toto Attestation Framework].

## Model

This predicate conveys a [Trusted Publisher]'s intent to publish a package
to PyPI.

It implicitly communicates the state of the Trusted Publisher (at the time of
publishing) via the identity that produced the signature. This identity
can be cross-checked during verification, per [PEP 740], via the
["provenance" objects] served by PyPI's index APIs.

## Schema

This predicate has no schema. The Type URI is the only required field,
and it **MUST** be `https://docs.pypi.org/attestations/publish/v1`.

The `predicate` body itself **MUST** be either empty
(meaning an empty JSON object, `{}`) or not supplied (meaning JSON `null`).

[in-toto Attestation Framework]: https://github.com/in-toto/attestation/blob/main/spec/README.md

[Trusted Publisher]: /trusted-publishers/

[PEP 740]: https://peps.python.org/pep-0740/

["provenance" objects]: https://peps.python.org/pep-0740/#provenance-objects
