docs/development/frontend.rst, before:

Frontend
========

The Warehouse frontend is (as you might suspect) written in JavaScript with the
CSS handled by SCSS. It uses ``gulp`` to process these files and prepare them for
serving.

All of the static files are located in ``warehouse/static/`` and external
libraries are found in ``package.json``.


Building
--------

Static files should be automatically built when ``make serve`` is running;
however, you can trigger a manual build of them by installing
`NodeJS 10.x <https://nodejs.org/en/download/releases/>`_, installing
the dependencies using ``npm install`` and then running ``gulp dist``.

If you're in a POSIX environment you may find
`NVM <https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm>`_ useful to have multiple NodeJS
versions installed in your system.


Tests
-----

The JavaScript codebase includes tests that can be ran via
``make static_tests`` which is also ran with the ``make tests`` target.
Both targets will run the tests in the Docker environment but they
may also be ran locally using ``npm run test`` once NodeJS and the
dependencies are installed as described above.

JavaScript tests use the `Jest testing framework <https://jestjs.io/>`_
along with `jest-dom <https://github.com/testing-library/jest-dom>`_
for assertion helpers. We can invoke Jest directly specify a particular
test suite via ``node_modules/.bin/jest tests/frontend/<TEST_FILE>.js`` or
add any of the `Jest CLI options <https://jestjs.io/docs/en/cli>`_ .
All tests are located in the ``tests/frontend``.

`Stimulus <https://stimulusjs.org/>`_ controller tests leverage on Jest
including `JSDOM <https://github.com/jsdom/jsdom/>`_ allowing us to
inject the required HTML markup for Stimulus in a setup phase. After the
setup we must manually instantiate and start a Stimulus application and
then test the funcionality by triggering events in DOM elements and
asserting on the effects. See existing tests the details on how to
accomplish this.

.. note:: This workflow may cause race conditions, in particular when testing
    code in the early lifecycle events of the controllers. The application or
    controller may not be ready by the time we reach the assertions causing
    false negatives on the tests. In these cases it's best to keep the HTML
    setup in a ``beforeEach`` block, even if it means repeating the setup on
    different ``describe`` scenarios. This will ensure the application and
    controllers are ready before the actual test is ran.

Deploying
---------

When deploying changes to the frontend, to see the changes immediately it is
necessary to purge the cache.

Individual pages can be purged from the command line by issuing a ``XPURGE``
request, e.g.::

    curl -XPURGE https://pypi.org/the/page/to/purge

All HTML pages can be dropped from the cache by purging the ``all-html``
surrogate key via our CDN provider.

The entire cache can be purged by issuing a "Purge All" via our CDN provider.

Purging the cache is not usually necessary when making frontend changes, unless
it would be unacceptable for the site to simultaneously have an "old" version
of some pages, but the "new" version of others.


Browser Support
---------------

========= ====================
 Browser  Supported Versions
========= ====================
 Chrome   Current, Current - 1
 Firefox  Current, Current - 1
 Edge     Current, Current - 1
 Opera    Current, Current - 1
 Safari   9.0+
 IE       11+
========= ====================


HTML Code Style
---------------

Warehouse follows the `Google HTML style guide
<https://google.github.io/styleguide/htmlcssguide.html>`_, which is
enforced via linting with `HTML Linter
<https://github.com/deezer/html-linter>`_.

Exceptions to these rules include:

- Protocols can be included in links - we prefer to include ``https`` protocols
- All HTML tags should be closed

We also allow both dashes and underscores in our class names, as we
follow the `Nicholas Gallagher variation
<http://nicolasgallagher.com/about-html-semantics-front-end-architecture/>`_
of the `BEM naming methodology <https://en.bem.info/>`_.

More information on how BEM works can be found in `this article from
CSS Wizardry
<https://csswizardry.com/2013/01/mindbemding-getting-your-head-round-bem-syntax/>`_.

When using ``target="_blank_"`` for a hyperlink (usually to an external site),
we should always set ``rel="noopener"``.


SCSS Style and Structure
------------------------

Warehouse follows the `Airbnb CSS/Sass style guide <https://github.com/airbnb/css>`_,
with the exception that JS hooks should be prefixed with ``-js`` rather
than ``js``.

Our SCSS codebase is structured according to the `ITCSS system
<https://www.creativebloq.com/web-design/manage-large-scale-web-projects-new-css-architecture-itcss-41514731>`_.
The principle of this system is to break SCSS code into layers and
import them into a main stylesheet in an order moving from generic to
specific. This tightly controls the cascade of styles.

The majority of the SCSS styles are found within the 'blocks' layer,
with each BEM block in its own file. All blocks are documented at the top of
the file to provide guidelines for use and modification.

One of these blocks provides code syntax highlighting, which can be tested with
reference project provided at `<http://localhost/project/pypi-code-highlighting-demo/>`_
when using development database. Source reStructuredText file is available
`here <https://github.com/evemorgen/pypi-code-highlighting-demo>`_.

Commit message:

Add WEBPACK_MODE env var
Update docs

docs/development/frontend.rst, after:

Frontend
========

The Warehouse frontend is (as you might suspect) written in JavaScript with the
CSS handled by SCSS. It uses `Webpack <https://webpack.js.org>` to process these
files and prepare them for serving.

All of the static files are located in ``warehouse/static/`` and external
libraries are found in ``package.json``.


Building
--------

Static files should be automatically built when ``make serve`` is running;
however, you can trigger a manual build of them by installing
`NodeJS 10.x <https://nodejs.org/en/download/releases/>`_, installing
the dependencies using ``npm install`` and then running ``gulp dist``.

If you're in a POSIX environment you may find
`NVM <https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm>`_ useful to have multiple NodeJS
versions installed in your system.

Two Webpack configurations are defined, one for the main site and another for
the admin section. The ``make serve`` command will start two containers watching
the source files for each configuration, any changes on them will trigger a
rebuild.

By default, these containers will build the assets in production mode,
minimizing and creating compressed versions of the final assets. However, while
developing, you want to have the shortest time possible to be able to see the
effect of your changes. You can change Webpack's build mode defining an
environment variable `WEBPACK_MODE` set to `development`, i.e.
``WEBPACK_MODE=development make serve``, reducing the build time dramatically.
Please make sure you test your changes in production mode before commiting
your changes.


Tests
-----

The JavaScript codebase includes tests that can be ran via
``make static_tests`` which is also ran with the ``make tests`` target.
Both targets will run the tests in the Docker environment but they
may also be ran locally using ``npm run test`` once NodeJS and the
dependencies are installed as described above.

JavaScript tests use the `Jest testing framework <https://jestjs.io/>`_
along with `jest-dom <https://github.com/testing-library/jest-dom>`_
for assertion helpers. We can invoke Jest directly specify a particular
test suite via ``node_modules/.bin/jest tests/frontend/<TEST_FILE>.js`` or
add any of the `Jest CLI options <https://jestjs.io/docs/en/cli>`_ .
All tests are located in the ``tests/frontend``.

`Stimulus <https://stimulusjs.org/>`_ controller tests leverage on Jest
including `JSDOM <https://github.com/jsdom/jsdom/>`_ allowing us to
inject the required HTML markup for Stimulus in a setup phase. After the
setup we must manually instantiate and start a Stimulus application and
then test the funcionality by triggering events in DOM elements and
asserting on the effects. See existing tests the details on how to
accomplish this.

.. note:: This workflow may cause race conditions, in particular when testing
    code in the early lifecycle events of the controllers. The application or
    controller may not be ready by the time we reach the assertions causing
    false negatives on the tests. In these cases it's best to keep the HTML
    setup in a ``beforeEach`` block, even if it means repeating the setup on
    different ``describe`` scenarios. This will ensure the application and
    controllers are ready before the actual test is ran.

Deploying
---------

When deploying changes to the frontend, to see the changes immediately it is
necessary to purge the cache.

Individual pages can be purged from the command line by issuing a ``XPURGE``
request, e.g.::

    curl -XPURGE https://pypi.org/the/page/to/purge

All HTML pages can be dropped from the cache by purging the ``all-html``
surrogate key via our CDN provider.

The entire cache can be purged by issuing a "Purge All" via our CDN provider.

Purging the cache is not usually necessary when making frontend changes, unless
it would be unacceptable for the site to simultaneously have an "old" version
of some pages, but the "new" version of others.


Browser Support
---------------

========= ====================
 Browser  Supported Versions
========= ====================
 Chrome   Current, Current - 1
 Firefox  Current, Current - 1
 Edge     Current, Current - 1
 Opera    Current, Current - 1
 Safari   9.0+
 IE       11+
========= ====================


HTML Code Style
---------------

Warehouse follows the `Google HTML style guide
<https://google.github.io/styleguide/htmlcssguide.html>`_, which is
enforced via linting with `HTML Linter
<https://github.com/deezer/html-linter>`_.

Exceptions to these rules include:

- Protocols can be included in links - we prefer to include ``https`` protocols
- All HTML tags should be closed

We also allow both dashes and underscores in our class names, as we
follow the `Nicholas Gallagher variation
<http://nicolasgallagher.com/about-html-semantics-front-end-architecture/>`_
of the `BEM naming methodology <https://en.bem.info/>`_.

More information on how BEM works can be found in `this article from
CSS Wizardry
<https://csswizardry.com/2013/01/mindbemding-getting-your-head-round-bem-syntax/>`_.

When using ``target="_blank_"`` for a hyperlink (usually to an external site),
we should always set ``rel="noopener"``.


SCSS Style and Structure
------------------------

Warehouse follows the `Airbnb CSS/Sass style guide <https://github.com/airbnb/css>`_,
with the exception that JS hooks should be prefixed with ``-js`` rather
than ``js``.

Our SCSS codebase is structured according to the `ITCSS system
<https://www.creativebloq.com/web-design/manage-large-scale-web-projects-new-css-architecture-itcss-41514731>`_.
The principle of this system is to break SCSS code into layers and
import them into a main stylesheet in an order moving from generic to
specific. This tightly controls the cascade of styles.

The majority of the SCSS styles are found within the 'blocks' layer,
with each BEM block in its own file. All blocks are documented at the top of
the file to provide guidelines for use and modification.

One of these blocks provides code syntax highlighting, which can be tested with
reference project provided at `<http://localhost/project/pypi-code-highlighting-demo/>`_
when using development database. Source reStructuredText file is available
`here <https://github.com/evemorgen/pypi-code-highlighting-demo>`_.
